 OBJECTIVE
 Describe gateway-as-a-service deployment in IoT toolkit.
 THEORY
 The Internet of Things (IoT) is set to occupy a substantial component of future Internet. The
 IoT connects sensors and devices that record physical observations to applications and
 services of the Internet. As a successor to technologies such as RFID and Wireless Sensor
 Networks (WSN), the IoT has stumbled into vertical silos of proprietary systems, providing
 little or no interoperability with similar systems. As the IoT represents future state of the
 Internet, an intelligent and scalable architecture is required to provide connectivity between
 these silos, enabling discovery of physical sensors and interpretation of messages between
 things. This paper proposes a gateway and Semantic Web enabled IoT architecture to
 provide interoperability between systems using established communication and data
 standards. The Semantic Gateway as Service (SGS) allows translation between messaging
 protocols such as XMPP, CoAP and MQTT via a multi-protocol proxy architecture.
 Utilization of broadly accepted specifications such as W3C's Semantic Sensor Network
 (SSN) ontology for semantic annotations of sensor data provide semantic interoperability
 between messages and support semantic reasoning to obtain higher-level actionable
 knowledge from low-level sensor data.
 While developing IoT solutions we come across common tasks of connecting <things= to the
 cloud. For devices that are not connected to the cloud directly, gateways are used. Such
 gateway can be a system on chip (SoC) device: cable modem, set top box, home or industrial
 automation gateway, smart phone, home entertainment system, laptop or PC. All these
 gateway should have some sort of interface (BLE/ZigBee/etc radios, adapter, digital or
 analog inputs) that can connect to the actual device: lamp, controller, sensor, appliance
 Semantic Gateway as Service (SGS) The heart of the semantic IoT architecture is the SGS,
 which bridges low level raw sensor information with knowledge centric application
 services by facilitating interoperability at messaging protocol and data modeling level.
 The description below is complemented by Open Source code available at
 https://github.com/chheplo/node-sgs which is further being enhanced and evaluated in the
 context of CityPulse, a large multi-institutional EU FP7 supported project along with an
 effort for additional community engagement and development.
 Semantic Gateway as Service (SGS)
 The heart of the semantic IoT architecture is the SGS, which bridges low level raw sensor
 information with knowledge centric application services by facilitating interoperability at
 messaging protocol and data modelling level. The description below is complemented by
 Open Source code available at https://github.com/chheplo/node-sgs which is further being
 enhanced and evaluated in the context of City Pulse, a large multi-institutional EU FP7
 supported project
 along with an effort for additional community engagement and Gateway as a service architecture
 The SGS has three core components as described in Figure:
 (1) multi-protocol proxy,
 (2) semantic annotation service,
 (3) Gateway service interface.
 Fig.
 The SGS also has components for required capabilities such as message store and topics
 router, which assist multi-protocol proxy and gateway service interface in translation between
 messaging protocol. At a high level, SGS architecture connects external sink nodes to the
 gateway component using primitive client agents, which support MQTT, XMPP or CoAP.
 In contrast, the gateway service interface connects cloud services or other SGSs via REST or
 pub sub protocol. Before raw sensor data is forwarded from proxy to gateway interface, it is
 annotated using SSN and domain specific ontologies. Although the semantically annotated
 data is in RDF format at the multi-protocol proxy, the gateway interface converts the data
 into JSON, specifically linked data (JSON-LD) format to support RESTful protocols.